pockets are one of the worst places to
keep your phone you can lose it
accidentally sit on it and crack the
screen get your pocket picked
or even worse expose your body to
microwaves not the appliance in your
kitchen but close remember learning
about electromagnetic spectrum in school
there's radio waves microwaves infrared
visible light ultraviolet x-rays and
gamma rays through a range based on how
long the wavelength is the shorter the
more dangerous for health a phone has a
full range of signals mobile data
Bluetooth Wi-Fi and something called
Near Field Communication NFC pretty much
a way for your phone to interact with
something within a couple of inches of
it those all fall on the spectrum
between radio and microwaves now back to
your kitchen appliance it has that thick
black mesh screen on the door to protect
you from the microwaves bouncing around
inside and heating up your food not to
say phones are putting out as much
potentially damaging microwave energy as
a thing heating up your hot pocket
that'd be cool make a call and lunch is
ready but it doesn't mitt and receive
some and you're putting that transmitter
right up against your body when you keep
your phone in your pocket what happens
your body can absorb those waves
rest assured radio and microwaves aren't
the kind that damage DNA those are on
the other end of the spectrum
ultraviolet think the Sun x-rays and
gamma rays there's still some debate on
how bad cellphones are for the body but
until we find more evidence it's best to
play it safe at least put your phone on
airplane mode before you slip it in your
gene or shirt pocket if you're concerned
about putting these microwaves up
against your brain go for a headset
loudspeakers video chat or even text are
a good way to communicate to a phone
holster is also an option at least they
create a barrier between your body and
the EMF emission it's even worse when
you're in an area with low coverage or
when you're on the road the phone tries
to connect to a nearby network and it
emits even more energy doing so as soon
as all the bars are back to their place
feel free to use it again
and get this some studies have found a
link between wearing your phone clipped
on your hip and bone weakening the bone
mass loss was on that side where the
participants hung their phones all of
this applies at the gym - first of all
you get sweaty when you're working out
so you're covering your precious pricey
friend in bacteria ooh and there's still
the issue of EMFs keep your phone off
your body or just leave it in your gym
bag don't leave it on the bathroom
counter as your shower the moisture
collects inside the phone condensation
sets in and it can ruin the internal
parts in fact keep the phone out of the
bathroom entirely there's a host of
germs ready to descend on your device
whoo each time you flush the toilet it
sprays microbes all over anything within
three or even six feet and then you
press that thing against your face for
calls yeah your phone is almost seven
times dirtier than a toilet seat
think about that bacteria can get
trapped in your pores and ruin your
complexion disinfect your phone daily
make it a rule to come home take the
case off and rub the whole thing down
with a soft cloth dipped in an alcohol
water solution under the pillow as you
sleep another no no one it's been shown
to cause fires especially went on the
charger and to the hole EMF thing the
same goes for the nightstand just use a
regular alarm clock or put your phone on
the other side of the room a little
trick to help you get up without hitting
the snooze button probably best to just
leave your phone out of the bedroom
entirely and the TV to the blue light
from the screen lowers your melatonin
levels and that's the stuff your body
produces to make you fall asleep at
night try not to use your phone or
tablet at least one hour before hitting
the sack if you really must have your
phone by your side then at least go to
the settings and turn on the blue light
filter while you're at it adjust the
brightness and increase the font size
those can cause headaches and eye strain
if you accidentally crack the screen
replace it with a new one as soon as you
can might not seem like a problem since
the touchscreen still works but all the
grease dust and bacteria will get
through the cracks and ruin the screen
when you're in a car don't put your
phone in the glove compartment in summer
and don't leave it in the car at all in
the winter the temperature can be too
extreme I know who does that
well you pop into a store for a loaf of
bread you don't need your phone but you
don't want it lying out in the open in
your car just take it with you but don't
throw it in your bag all willy-nilly it
can get scratched by your keys and the
porch will get blocked with lint
same goes for in your pockets by the way
in that case clean them out with
pressurized air like the ones made to
clean keyboards it's best not to put any
pointy objects in the ports but if you
do make sure it's a toothpick and do it
very carefully if it's storming outside
don't charge your devices if lightning
strikes and your phone's plugged in it
could fry it and never use your phone
when it's plugged in it'll slow down the
charging and you can get shot from it
especially if you're using one of those
counterfeit chargers try to stick to the
manufacturers approved one that's
actually why many charger cords are so
short to prevent you from using the
phone when it's juicing up don't charge
your phone overnight there's a fire
issue I mentioned earlier and it's just
unnecessary lithium-ion batteries don't
absorb overcharge plus it can shorten
your battery's lifespan hey while we're
busting myths you don't need to go zero
percent before charging to 100% again
that's an old trick that's no longer
relevant for new models keep your phone
in the range of 40 to 80 percent and
beware of those battery saver apps they
just eat up the battery while running in
the background the only thing they do is
restrict other apps in the background
and that's something you can do yourself
in the settings still you shouldn't even
need to do that multitasking death
Knicks aren't your battery as long as
the background apps aren't actively
working like location tracking or any
music player if you don't want to close
the apps on standby
it's okay to leave them keep as much
data in the cloud as you can too many
files on your phone can make it run
slower and if it's in the cloud you can
access it from any of your devices ready
for the quiz hey just kidding
you